Here is a modern rewrite of the passage:

Chapter 1: The Canoe Builder

Dick stood on a coral ledge, gazing south. Behind him, the breakers of the outer sea crashed and spray scattered on the wind. Before him, an infinite, blue ocean stretched out, calm as a lake, accompanied by the cries of seagulls. This was Karolin, a sea within itself, with its own moods and rhythms.

Below him, the tribe bustled along the beach, busy with their daily routines, playing games, working on paraka patches, and hauling in nets. They were all his people, and theirs were the empty houses where the war canoes once rested.

But as he gazed at the lagoon, his brow furrowed, and he turned to face the northern sea and its invisible horizon. Beyond that line lay Palm Tree, an island as dreamlike as a vision, yet swarming with demons.

Little Tari, the son of Le Taioi the net maker, sat on the coral beside him, his eyes fixed on Dick. Tari knew little of life beyond the island, but he knew that all the men had been swept away by war, leaving the women, children, and boys like himself without a leader or protector.

Then, yesterday, from the northern sea, in a strange boat, had come this new figure, sent by the gods, so the women said, to be their ruler. Tari didn't understand who the gods might be, nor did he care, alone now with this wonderful new person, out of earshot of his mother.

"Taori," said little Tari, "Who are you?"

Dick couldn't answer, at least, not in a way the child would understand. The story was too complex, filled with foreign words and memories Dick himself had forgotten. All he knew was that he had come from beyond the world they knew, sent by the gods to be their chief and ruler.

But the question stirred something deep within him, and he saw again the memory of the schooner that had put into Palm Tree, only to be burned by Melanesian hands. He saw Katafa and himself, making their escape in the old dinghy, their landing on this beach, surrounded by the women and children who considered him sent by the gods to be their chief and leader.

As he gazed towards the north, the memory of the men they had escaped from stained the beauty of sea and sky. There was no immediate fear of the men who had taken possession of Palm Tree, but they would build canoes, and as surely they would see the mirror-blaze of Karolin lagoon in the sky. They would come.

Dick was almost a savage, yet the white man was there. He could think forward, think round a subject, and imagine. That's why he had sent a canoe that morning to fetch Aioma, Palia, and Tafata, three old men, expert canoe-builders. And that's why, gazing at the tribe in full congregation, his eyes had brightened to the fact that nearly a hundred youths were ripening to war age.

War canoes! Did he intend fighting any invaders in the lagoon or as they drew towards shore? Or did he vaguely intend to be the attacker, destroying the danger at its source before it could develop?

As he stood there, lost in thought, Katafa's hand fell upon his shoulder, her eyes fixed on the same point he had been gazing at – the due-north sea line.

"Look!" she said.

At big intervals and in certain conditions of weather, Palm Tree became visible from Karolin through the mirage. It was coming to life again, a mysterious stain that deepened by degrees and hardened till the island showed, beautiful as a dream.

They stood together in silence, their minds untutored, knowing nothing of mirage, their eyes fixed on the place they had escaped from. They felt again the wind that filled the sail as the dinghy raced for safety and the open sea, and again they heard the yells of the Melanesians mad with rum, and the scene of tragedy unfolded before them.

Then as Dick gazed on this loveliness, which was yet a threat and a warning, his nostrils expanded, and his eyes grew dark with hate. They had threatened him – that was nothing, they had threatened Katafa – that was everything – and they still threatened her.

The vision of Palm Tree seemed to repeat what instinct told him. Some day they would come. The lagoon mirror-light in the sky would call to them, and they would come. They had no women, those men, and here were women, and instinct half-whispered to him that just as he had been drawn to Katafa, so would these men be drawn to the women of Karolin.

Ah, if he had known, danger lay not only to the north but wherever greed or desire or hatred might roam on that azure sea, not only amongst savages but the wolves of civilization.

Gradually the vision of Palm Tree began to fade and pass, and as they turned from the sea to the lagoon, Katafa pointed across the water to a canoe approaching from the southern beach.

It was the canoe Dick had sent for the canoe builders, and leaving the coral, they came down to the white sand of the inner beach to meet it.